# LD4 Community Working Group on Reconciliation

## About

[Linked Data for Libraries, Linked Data for Production, and Linked Data for Libraries Labs](https://ld4l.org/) are a series of grant-funded projects working broadly on implementing Linked Data in library workflows across functional areas and domains. The umbrella effort is referred to as 'LD4'.

LD4 Community groups are a way to work with interested community members on a work area or topic that intersects with Linked Data and library work needs. They are open to participation from anyone and aim for the highest level of transparency in efforts, work, & outputs to help support a growing community of Linked Data implementers in libraries and other GLAM, cultural heritage, and memory institutions.

### Conveners:

Arwen Hutt / ahutt@ucsd.edu ; @arwenhutt
Christina Harlow / cmharlow@stanford.edu ; @cmh2166

### Scope

*(the following will be confirmed with participants at our kick-off call)*

This LD4 Community group is an effort to:
- generate a shared understanding of what reconciliation work entails, including use cases and user stories;
- build collaboration for existing or emerging reconciliation tool development;
- and outline pragmatic solutions including matching algorithms, workflows, tools, and functional requirements for Cultural Heritage/GLAM+ resource metadata reconciliation.

NB: **Metadata** here is used in an expansive way to cover not only traditional bibliographic metadata, but also descriptions for emerging resource types & metadata domains (rights, administrative, structural, etc.) as applicable to the group’s efforts.

NB: **Reconciliation** here is meant broadly and includes:
- Reconciliation (in specific sense): entity/URI to entity/URI
- Entity resolution: string to entity/URI (what most people are thinking about, it appears)
- Lexicalization: entity/URI to string (i.e. getting a label)

The above is generated from [LD4 Community Meeting Feedback](https://wiki.duraspace.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=83232681), which included the following points:
- “There were so many cool presentations and conversations today around reconciliation tools, I would love to see conversations around that continue”
- “I have a lot of work queued up around reconciliation. lets work together? most is queued up in GH”
- “We’ve been trying to compare reconciliation tools and would like to expand this with this group’s input”
- Largest gap in tooling from the Tools breakout: Reconciliation listed

### Participants

To be added as firms up.

The group is open to anyone who wants to contribute. [Get in touch the conveners](#conveners) if you're uncertain where to start or how to jump in.

+ Arcadia Falcone / arcadia@stanford.edu ; [@arcadiafalcone](https://github.com/arcadiafalcone)
+ Ryan Johnson / rejohnson@ucsd.edu ; ([@remerjohnson](https://github.com/remerjohnson))
+ Chrissy Rissmeyer / crissmeyer@ucsb.edu ; ([@chrissyrissmeyer](https://github.com/chrissyrissmeyer))
+ Julie Hardesty / jlhardes@iu.edu ; ([@jlhardes](https://github.com/jlhardes))

## Working Areas

### Proposed Outputs

Some ideas mentioned listed below, to be further developed at the kick off call:
- List of existing reconciliation tools & a comparison of them
- Identify common reconciliation use cases
- Develop flexible (modular perhaps?) abstract workflow models for use cases
- Create functional requirements for shared workflow components
- Set of leveled (i.e. simplest to complex) reconciliation and matching algorithms for common reconciliation cases & data types (i.e. going from label look-ups based off various string matching algorithms to contextual data matching based off of string and other data type matching algorithms for multiple fields attached to a resource)
- Work on light-weight tools for certain needs listed above to make proof of concepts or support intermediate work & review
- (Meta) Model for LD4 / Other blackbox LODLAM efforts in community engagement & work

### General Timeframe

*(the following will be confirmed with participants at our kick-off call and continuously updated)*

**For group outputs:** Focus on smaller deliverables with shorter timeframes (< 3 months), as well as parallel work to cover a few different areas of work at the same time. We will start planning these at the kick-off meeting.

**For larger group planning:** Plan on an assessment at 1 year (or earlier if things seem to not be working). The 1 year mark is a time to rotate conveners, choose new meeting times, refresh the goals, disband, morph, etc.

## Workspace & Communication Channels

### Primary Workspace (Notes, Outputs):

This GitHub repository https://github.com/ld4p/ld4-community-recon/ (Christina @cmh2166, cmharlow@stanford.edu can add you to the repository)

### Communication:

*(the following will be confirmed with participants at our kick-off call and continuously updated)*

- Regular, short (30 minute) Zoom Video calls (bi-weekly, depending on work) for updates on work
- Github Issues on this repository for work-specific discussions or questions https://github.com/ld4p/ld4-community-recon/issues
- Github Projects on this repository for project management: https://github.com/LD4P/ld4-community-recon/projects
- Github Wiki on this repository for meeting notes & other documentation: https://github.com/LD4P/ld4-community-recon/wiki
- SUL-DLSS LD4All-Community Slack Channel for informal discussion. We will move to a unified & open LD4 Slack when it is available (Christina @cmh2166, cmharlow@stanford.edu can add you to the Slack channel)
- Email list for meeting reminders, notes, and decisions. Ask at kick-off if we want an email list or just a list of emails.

## Questions or Comments?

Use [Github Issues on this repository](https://github.com/ld4p/ld4-community-recon/issues) or [get in touch with one of the conveners](#conveners).
